---
layout: default
title: "BIO407: Immunology"
course_description: "An examination of the immune system, including innate and adaptive immunity, the cells involved in each of process of the immune system and their role in the immune response, and how antibodies are used to confer immunity for future potential exposures."
next: ../Unit01
previous: ../../../
---
Course Syllabus for "BIO407: Immunology"
----------------------------------------

Immunology is the study of our immune system, a highly sophisticated
system that defends us against all disease-causing invaders by
identifying and neutralizing such threats. Even though we might get sick
every now and then, the immune system does an incredible job of warding
off infection given how many infectious agents (thousands!) we come into
contact with every day. This becomes most apparent when a healthy
individual compares himself or herself to an individual with little or
no immune response who cannot survive in a normal environment and must
rely on specialized rooms much cleaner than even a surgery room. Before
the discovery of immunity, we used to associate sickness and disease
with various superstitions and beliefs. Only with the discovery of
bacteria, viruses, and our own cells did scientists slowly piece
together the modern theory of our immune system. Our overall system can
be broken down into two sub-systems, each with its own unique cells,
molecules, and functions. Our cells are in turn capable of recognizing
billions of different patterns of molecules, all of them alien to
ourselves, which helps us identify foreign invaders. It is important to
recognize that, as with any system in our body, when the immune system
malfunctions, disease can result. In this course we will take a look at
what happens when an inappropriate immune response takes place.

### Course Requirements

In order to take this course you must:

√    Have access to a computer.

√    Have continuous broadband Internet access.

√    Have the ability/permission to install plug-ins or software (e.g.,
Adobe Reader or Flash).

√    Have the ability to download and save files and documents to a
computer.

√    Have the ability to open Microsoft files and documents (.doc,
.ppt,.xls, etc.).

√    Be competent in the English language.
